### Keceli, A. S., Kaya, A., Catal, C., & Tekinerdogan, B. (2022). Deep learning-based multi-task prediction system for plant disease and species detection. _Ecological Informatics_, _69_, 101679. doi:10.1016/j.ecoinf.2022.101679
MTL:
- Although several models have been developed to solve both plant disease detection and species classification problems, machine learning/ deep learning models learned these tasks in isolation, which means that a separate model has been developed for each task. However, these two tasks are related and share a common representation that can be used to develop more accurate joint models. In machine learning, this learning approach is called Multi-Task Learning (MTL) which leads to better performance according to the empirical and theoretical analysis and investigations
Transfer learning:
- transfer learning approaches on the plant classification models (Kaya et al., 2019) and demonstrated that transfer learning provides better results compared to end-to-end prediction models for plant classification.
Research Questions:
- RQ-1: To what extent can plant classification and plant disease detection problems benefit from the Multi-Task Learning strategy?
- RQ-2: How can transfer learning approaches be integrated into the Multi-Task Learning models?

### Lewis, P., Perez, E., Piktus, A., Petroni, F., Karpukhin, V., Goyal, N., ... & Kiela, D. (2020). Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. _Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems_, _33_, 9459-9474.
- paper about RAG
## M. J. Buehler, Cephalo: Multi-Modal Vision-Language Models for Bio-Inspired Materials Analysis and Design. _Adv. Funct. Mater._ 2024, 2409531. [https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202409531](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202409531)
- Cephalo is presented as a series of multimodal vision large language models (V-LLMs) designed for materials science applications, integrating visual and linguistic data for enhanced understanding. A key innovation of Cephalo is its advanced dataset generation method. Cephalo is trained on integrated image and text data from thousands of scientific papers and science-focused Wikipedia data demonstrates it can interpret complex visual scenes, generate precise language descriptions, and answer queries about images effectively. The combination of a vision encoder with an autoregressive transformer supports multimodal natural language understanding, which can be coupled with other generative methods to create an image-to-text-to-3D pipeline. To develop more capable models from smaller ones, both mixture-of-expert methods and model merging are reported. The models are examined in diverse use cases that incorporate biological materials, fracture and engineering analysis, protein biophysics, and bio-inspired design based on insect behavior. Generative applications include bio-inspired designs, including pollen-inspired architected materials, as well as the synthesis of bio-inspired material microstructures from a photograph of a solar eclipse. Additional model fine-tuning with a series of molecular dynamics results demonstrate Cephalo's enhanced capabilities to accurately predict statistical features of stress and atomic energy distributions, as well as crack dynamics and damage in materials.
## 